In this section I'd like to talk about robots
and jobs. Whenever I go and give a public
talk about robotics, somebody in the audience
always ask me about robots and jobs. Arn’t
robots going to take jobs away from people?
And it's true, robots will take jobs away
from people. But there are jobs that I believe
people shouldn't do. And that's because those
jobs are dangerous.
So if we look at the data shown here, we look
at the number of fatalities per a 100,000
workers in a number of different occupational
areas recorded at 2 points in time. And we
can see that there are some industries, which
are really quite dangerous. People can go
to work in one of these industries and not
come home at night because they've been killed
on the job. And to me that's non-acceptable.
If there are dangerous jobs, then it should
be machines doing work instead of humans.
I'm going to focus a bit on the mining industry
because that's an area where I spent more
than 10 years developing various robotic technologies
for underground and surface mining.
Let's first of all look at some fatality data
from the United States mining industry compiled
over a period of about 100 years.
The line graph show the fatality rate normalized
to production. Then we see a very happy reduction
in that fatality rate. The black line is for
the coal industry and the red line is for
non-coal industry which is generally service
mining operations. They tend to be safer than
underground coal mining.
So while there has been a very considerable
improvement over time. We observe just as
we did for road accident fatalities that the
rate of improvement is plateauing and it's
not plateauing to zero. It's plateauing to
a value above zero. So there is some residual
rate of fatality that will occur in mining
operations.
Despite 100 years of continuous improvement,
we are really struggling to get this rate
down to zero. If we look at the types of accidents
that occur in mines today, we see that the
courses are really quite varied. Some of them
are unfortunate encounters between human beings
and machines, conveyer belts and trucks and
so on. Some of them are electrocutions, people
slipping and falling, relatively few of them
involved people being killed by falling rocks,
which is perhaps what most people would consider
to be leading cause of death in an underground mine.
So what can we do about this? Well the important
thing is to remove the human beings from hazardous
situations. Here is a type of vehicle called
a load haul dump unit or a scoop tram if you
come from Canada. And it's used to carry ore
in an underground mine. Now once upon a time
these machines were all driven by a driver
who sat here. The problem is that these machines
go in to dangerous parts of the mine. So what
some mining companies do now is to remove
the operator to a safe remote location.
Here the operator is able to control the machine
with the joystick and she can see the status
of the machine through a view of the camera
and the position of the vehicle superimpose
on a map of the mine. And that situational
awareness information is coming from various
senses fitted to the machine.
So what we're seeing now is a separation between
the person doing the work and the place where
the work is occurring. And this happens in
many other situations as well. An underwater
vehicle which is doing some task deep beneath
the ocean. The operator is at some comfortable
workstation on board a ship. Consider the
case of a Mars robot. It's doing the work
of geologist and chemist on the surface of
Mars whereas the actual geologist and chemist
are sitting at workstations on earth.
Consider the case of robotic surgery that
we look at earlier. The surgeons are doing
their work at workstations on the left hand
side of the picture where the actual work,
the actual surgery is occurring inside of
the body of the patient. And that's being
done by the robots here. Now the robots are
connected to the workstations by cables. So
there's no reason in fact that those cables
couldn't be longer. They could in fact be
an intercontinental telecommunications link.
And this is actually being demonstrated. We've
had surgeons on one continent performing an
operation on a patient in another continent.
So the worker and the place of work are now
quite distinct.
So traditionally, the work has been at the
workplace. The worker has been on the machine
or controlling the machine directly. Right
now with remote control technology, it's possible
that the worker can be remote from the machine.
But in the future I think what's going to
happen is that the machine will be smarter and they'll be able to a lot of the work all by themselves.
So we will move to a situation where one worker
will be remotely managing many machines. That
means that the worker who is not joy sticking
the machine in the traditional sense they
giving a high level command to the machine.
They are saying machine A go off and do this
task. Machine B go off and do this task. Machine
C go and do this task. And if one of the machines
has encountered a problem then it would come
back to the operator.
Machine B may come back to the operator and
say, "I don't know how to do this thing that
you've asked me to do." So the operator can
give machine B some more detailed instructions.
So it's like the way a human manager manages
a number of human workers. But now we have
a human manager managing a number of intelligent
machines.
Perhaps sometime in the medium future, the
machines will be smart enough not to need
human managers. But right now we need a combination of human intuition, intelligence and experience
combined with the relentless work ethic, the
tirelessness and the reliability of robotic workers.
So in the future I believe work will be a
partnership between human managers and robot
workers. And what this enables is the same
or greater level of productivity perhaps with
lower operator skill levels. Because the skill
is going to be encapsulated in the robot worker.
The robot worker is going to do the detailed
skilful work and the human manager is going
to tell the robot where it should be deploying
its particular skill.
Machines are going to suffer much less damage
because they're going to be driven by computers
rather than by human beings. The computers
are going to ensure that the machines are
driven safely and within their operational
envelopes.
And finally we'll be able to achieve force
multiplication. That means that more work
will be able to be done by fewer people because
they're going to be assisted by robots.
In order to achieve this, we're going to need
high communications bandwidth between where
the robots are doing their work and where
the human managers are sitting at their workstations.
We're going to need the machines to have some level of local autonomy, some level of local automation.
We're going to have to take a system's approach
to the way we do task; where do we situate
the people, where do we situate the robot,
how much intelligence should we embed in the
robot, how much communications do we need.
So it's going to be a new way of thinking
about work places and how humans and robots
interact.